Section 6: Infrastructureas Code and PaaS
ICPS

Creating and updating stacks

1.- Go to CloudFormation.
2.- In the left menu select the option Stacks.
3.- Clic on the button Create stack.
4.- In the section Prerequisite - Prepare template select the option Create template in Designer.
5.- Clic on the button Create template in designer.
6.- Here are drag and drop designer.
7.- Back to the Create stack.
8.- In the section Prerequisite - Prepare template select the option Template is ready.
9.- In the section Specify template select the option Upload a template file.
10.- In the files of the course search:
Users/neal/Documents/GitHub-Code/cod/aws-cloudformation/
1-ec2-template.yml
2-ec2-template.yml
3-ec2-template.yml

11.- Go to the EC2 service and select a operation system,ans copy the uefi-preferred.
12.- Paste in the part ImageId: of the code of the three files.
13.- In the page of the Create stack clic on the button Choose file.
14.- Select the first file ans enter.
15.- Clic on the button Next.
16.- In the section of Provide a stack name in the text box Stack name type a name.
17.- Clic on the button Next.
18.- Clic on the button Next.
19.- Clic on the button Submit.
20.- The first stance is created.

1.- In the created instance in CloadFormation/Stacks/nameInstances.
2.- Select the tap Events.
3.- Select the button Stack actions.
4.- Clic on the option Create change set for current stack.
5.- In the section Prerequisite - Prepare template select the option Replace current template.
6.- In the section Specify template select the option Upload a template file.
7.- Clic on the button Choose file.
8.- Select the second file and enter.
9.- Clic on the button Next.
10.- Clic on the button Next.
11.- Clic on the button Next.
12.- Clic on the button Submit.
13.- In the section Overview clic on the button refresh.
14.- When the button Execute change set get enable clic on it.
15.- In the dialog window clic on the button Execute change set.
16.- In the section of the instances in the EC2 page can you see the changes on the first instance.

Apply the same process with the third file.

